--- PAGE 1 ---
STAFF REPORT
Date: February 26, 2025
To: Mayor and City Council
Through: Jackie Bryant, City Manager
Subject: Staff Report (For Possible Action): Discussion and potential direction to staff
regarding modification of Reno Municipal Code, Chapter 1.05 entitled 'Code
Enforcement—Administrative Provisions', Article VI, entitled
'Administrative Hearings', Sections 1.05.500 to 1.05.560, inclusive.
From: Jonathan Shipman, Deputy City Attorney
Department: City Attorney’s Office
Summary:
Mayor Schieve has requested an agenda item to initiate a text amendment to Reno Municipal
Code, Chapter 1.05 entitled 'Code Enforcement—Administrative Provisions', Article VI, entitled
'Administrative Hearings', Sections 1.05.500 to 1.05.560, inclusive. Staff is seeking direction
from Council to either initiate a text amendment, or to maintain the existing adopted
requirements in the Reno Municipal Code.
Alignment with Strategic Plan:
• Economic and Community Development
• Governance and Organizational Efficiency
Previous Council Action:
No previous Council action.
Background:
Per Reno Municipal Code (RMC), Chapter 1.05.515, Hearing Officers have various powers
including but not limited to: presiding over administrative hearings; continue a hearing based on
good cause shown by one of the parties to the hearing or if the hearing officer independently
determines that due process has not been adequately afforded, and the continuing jurisdiction over
the subject matter of an administrative hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance, ensuring
compliance with an administrative order, modifying an administrative order, or where
extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.

--- PAGE 2 ---
Additionally, per RMC 1.05.600, within 30 calendar days from service of an administrative order
or other decision by the hearing officer, any party may appeal the determination of the hearing
officer to municipal court, unless appeal to another tribunal is required by law. Any party failing
to timely file an appeal to court shall be deemed to have waived any and all objections to the
administrative hearing officer's decision
Discussion:
Mayor Schieve would like to discuss the Hearing Officer’s authority.
Financial Implications:
None at this time.
Legal Implications:
Legal review completed for compliance with City procedures and Nevada law.
Recommendation:
Staff recommends Council provide direction to staff on updates to the hearing officer authority,
or direction to maintain the code in its current state.
Proposed Motion:
I move to direct staff to initiate applicable Reno Municipal Code updates pursuant to direction
from Council.
Attachments:
8
8
6
2